There's so much disruption in politics,
in trade, [music] in blockchain, in AI.
How do you think we'll reflect on this
period?
>> I have to tell you that in my 30 plus
years in this business, I have never
felt the intense pressure of change like
we do right now.
From an investment person, staying on
top of all these things has always been
core to what they do.
[music]
All right.
>> Okay.
>> Gosh, it's like Hogwarts.
>> Yeah. Is it?
>> It's like Hogwarts.
>> Thank you so much.
>> Wow.
>> It's quite impressive being in such a
big hall. I feel like
>> the weight of history.
>> Yes. [music]
>> Jenny, [music] thank you so much for for
doing leaders with us. I am honored to
be here.
>> So, let's let's start from the
beginning. How would you describe your
family? [laughter]
>> Wow. That's just diving right in.
>> Let's go in.
>> How would I describe my family? Um,
look, I think uh bunch of uh achievers,
you know, you you look at my dad, he
really built Franklin Templeton. People
always say my grandfather started it,
but my dad took it over when it was $2.5
million in assets and $10,000 in
revenue.
Founded in 1947 and named in honor
[music] of Benjamin Franklin, Franklin
Templeton began as a pioneering
investment firm dedicated to giving
everyday investors access to
professional money management.
Franklin Templeton operates in more than
80 financial centers worldwide, London,
[music] New York, Paris, and Hong Kong
to name a few, but is headquartered in
California.
Today, it manages around 1.6 6 trillion
in assets. They surpassed the trillion
dollar mark after Jenny Johnson took the
reigns.
Johnson held leadership roles in all
Franklin Templeton's major divisions.
She's a third generation heir to this
chief executive role and her family owns
more than a third of the business.
What's it really like to lead the
company your family started and grew for
generations?
>> There was never any [music] pressure to
go into the business. you you went into
we all did at some point because
somebody you know probably might needed
a job but um there was never pressure to
to you know head that way then my mom
had seven children and went back to you
know college and graduated from Stanford
medical school and then practiced dinner
was always 7:00 sharp and you know you
needed to [music] to have shoes and a
shirt and be reasonably nicely dressed
for for dinner that was always and the
whole family sat [music] down uh and uh
the conversations I would say were much
more oriented towards [music] science
finance, my mother's sort of area of
interest than finance. My dad, he's
probably a little quieter than my mom
and uh the conversations [music]
again, you never felt any pressure.
>> So Jen, what was the interview process
like to becoming chief executive?
>> So it was not a fatal comple um okay so
uh the board you know look the
>> that's tough if you're like part of a
family.
>> Oh trust me. They put me through a
Spencer Stewart [music] CEO survey and
they said we're going to give you a
scenario and you need to answer it. And
the only reason I remember this one, I
don't remember any other, is because my
mind went completely blank with fear.
>> So, you own a parking garage
>> and uh your your clients are complaining
that it takes too long to exit at the
same time. And you've hired two
consultants and they've said you cannot
speed up the exit process and you can't
add an exit. What do you do?
>> Would you do you I don't know. You'd
tear it so that the one who pays more
gets out first. I'm not sure. I'd fail
100%.
>> I just remember because it was such
fear. And so then I said, "Well, first
thing is I got to I'm going to do a
quick study to see how many other
parking lots around to see how quickly I
have to solve the problem [laughter]
and then I'm going to study as to why
and then I'm going to do tiered
pricing." Yes.
>> But so who so who chose in the end? Was
it like a family process voting? I mean,
it feels like quite scary, a bit like
succession.
>> It's the board. No, it's the board,
right? And the board has a fiduciary
duty to all shareholders.
>> What was your first week like? Oh well,
we announced 5 days after I became CEO
the acquisition of LegMason.
[music]
>> This will be an interesting mix of
institutional and retail clients. Can
they do both? [music] Well,
>> can they
>> to be seen?
>> And then two weeks later, uh, we we had
a twoe lockdown to flatten the curve for
CO that turned [music] into the 2-year
lockdown.
I one time was going through a tough
situation uh at work and my father left
on my desk. It was a [music] little
print out of a cartoon and the cartoon
was a frog being swallowed by a duck,
but this the frog [music] had managed to
get its arm around and was squeezing the
neck of the duck so the duck couldn't
quite get it down [music] and it said
never give up.
>> Is your dad [music] your biggest
influence in life? I'd say both my
parents are because I work, you know, to
this day my dad is 92 years old and will
circle the footnote of something [music]
and send me a note on it. Uh, you know,
he did every job in the company and so
I'm always amazed by the breadth of his
understanding.
>> Jenny, take us through Franklin Town
today. It's a different company today
than it was 20, 30 years ago.
>> Yeah. So, we're now $1.6 trillion asset
manager. What hasn't changed is we've
been very global for a long time. We
have clients in 160 countries. Uh but we
used to be just traditional asset
management. Now we're half
institutional, half wealth channel and
uh and we are a top 10 alternatives
manager. So we've got, you know,
secondary private equity, real estate,
private credit, venture. Uh so we've had
to evolve as the business has evolved.
>> An asset manager is a company that
manages other people's money, grows and
protects [music] their wealth.
Asset managers decide where to put the
money. Bonds, stocks, real estate,
private equity, or other investments.
And this money belongs to individuals,
other companies, pension funds, or even
governments.
Under [music] Jenny Johnson's
leadership, Franklin Templeton bet on a
few new products like blockchain
technology and alternative investments
like private markets.
Private markets are a growing part of
the economy. Here's why they matter.
The name [music] says it all. Public
markets, think the New York Stock
Exchange, are open to everyone and
anyone can see how a company is doing.
In private markets, which started
booming in the 1980s, investments happen
behind [music] closed doors. So, you
don't really know how that company is
doing from the outside.
They can be risky, but they promise
higher returns.
Private markets are mostly for
institutions, including pension funds
[music] and insurance companies, as well
as very wealthy individuals.
Investors [music] are expected to do
their own research, and their money
could be tied up in the company for
years.
[music] Private credit, which soared
after banks tightened their lending
following the 2008 financial [music]
crisis, is also an increasingly big part
of private markets today.
Private markets, including both private
equity and private credit, are expected
to continue growing globally from 13
trillion in 2024 [music]
to more than 20 trillion by 2030,
but they're also looser when it comes to
regulations and transparency.
Franklin [music] Templeton with other
private market players wants to lower
the bar for participating in the sector
expanding access to retail [music]
customers even
because the thing is private markets are
where lots of money can be made where
wealth gaps widen.
According to Franklin Templeton,
democratizing them could [music] tighten
the gap between the halves and the have
knots,
but also lowering the bar may bring in
more money. And all players in private
markets today [music] are running an
assets under management race.
They need to grow bigger and bigger to
survive.
The market [music] essentially is
becoming increasingly concentrated in
the larger players.
the US actually I I guess was built on
wealth creation and then in since the
global financial crisis access to money
or investing has changed. What's your
vision for for wealth creation?
>> I think the first thing is obviously
this growth in in private markets and I
I I think that's a secular change. You
know banks aren't going to suddenly get
back into the kind of lending like they
used to do. That is going to be done a
big portion of it by private credit
managers. And so for us to bring to our
clients, we have both traditional fixed
income and private credit. The second
thing is which I think is important is
providing access and customization to
individuals.
>> So do you think is it unfair? Do you
really think it's the only way for for
wealth creation to happen and I guess to
close that gap between the have and the
have nots? Well, first of all, I do
think there's a narrative that is not
fair uh that we as an industry have
perpetuated where we need to define what
we do in such a way that we are actually
helping people with the most important
goals of their lives, right? Like like
you know, usually there as part of a
goal, not always, but most of the time
there's a financial component and
helping people achieve that. Having that
nest egg of savings is really important.
And so I think what one is we have a
duty to think about bringing products
that are appropriate risk um for
people's wherever they are kind of on
their uh risk profile. Um and now it's
about well how do you provide access to
everybody? I always say my grandfather
got into this business because the
average person couldn't get [music]
access to the equity markets.
So they created a mutual fund because it
gave you diversification expert [music]
experience for a small amount. Anyone
who has an insurance policy, a bank
deposit, or a share of stock is helping
[music] to finance our business system.
A constant stream of savings dollars
must flow into big and small business
each year.
>> Well, now we face a similar issue with
private markets because they're [music]
becoming so significant. You have half
the number of public companies, you
know, than you did uh two decades ago.
So, how do you give everybody access?
[music] But it's an asset class that is
completely illquid and most people don't
have the luxury of tying [music] up
their savings for a long time. And so
thinking about creative vehicles to do
that I [music] think is really
important.
>> But I mean some say this is reckless
because actually there's too much risk
in some of the private markets even some
of you know private credit and so how do
you make sure it's safe almost at the
same time generates money.
>> Any credit can be very risky or not.
Silicon Valley Bank showed [music] that
the US treasuries were risky because
duration is an important component of
risk and fixed [music] income. And so
that's what I mean by thinking about
risk as you and and how you align that
risk with [music] whatever those clients
needs are. So as you look to democratize
access to private markets, we have to be
really cognizant and I always say that
it's the most important thing is the tip
of the spear. We're big believers in the
financial adviser being the person who's
making that decision along with their
client. People ask me because we've done
10 acquisitions since I've become CEO
and they say, "Well, how do you make
sure that the culture fits?" And so I
often say, "Well, it's if you're
evaluating a company, clients first." My
dad always says, "Take care of the
client, the business takes care of
itself." The second is, do they show
that they're collaborative amongst each
other? Right? Do they seem to get along?
Are they open and willing? Because what
what can go wrong in an acquisition is
that there's an attitude of we're
separate, we're not going to
participate. So you need people who will
collaborate.
>> But Jenn, how do you know? Because there
are so many acquisitions, you know, it
could be big banks where actually the
culture didn't fit. And you speak to
chief executives and said, "Well, I did
the due diligence and it just wasn't a
good match." Like how do you make sure
that that the culture fits, that the
leadership is good at the companies you
buy? I I think it's meeting the people
and spending time with them um at the
beginning and then also our approach in
acquisitions has always been we're not
going to cram down things, right?
Because if you're in the asset
management business, you're buying
people and investment process. So don't
destroy value by suddenly going in and
changing that. And now you show them why
actually being part of the bigger firm
is better for them. So how does that
come up? Right. One is obviously from
our breadth of distribution. We have
clients in 160 countries. But things
like AI, and I think that's actually a
big issue going forward for asset
managers. If you're a boutique manager,
you're not going to be able to compete
with the amount of data. We spend
hundreds of millions of dollars of
buying data.
>> But still, it's risky, right? Buying
companies is risky. Have you ever shied
away from risk or is this, you know, to
to succeed, you have to be risky? I
>> I think that Well, I believe me, there
are plenty of companies we didn't
acquire. I mean, I I always say
investment bankers will tell
[clears throat] you why it's a great
price and a great uh strategic fit, but
they'll never talk about culture. It
really matters.
>> Does Jenny Johnson have a financial
adviser?
>> Sounds like a nightmare job.
>> Yeah. [laughter] Yes. Because you have
to deal with me
>> because you actually because you
actually know a lot about it. [laughter]
>> Look at I'm a big believer that your
financial management of your money is
not a part-time job. So, I'm a big
believer that I just hand it over to
that financial adviser and have them
take care of it so I don't have to think
about it. But do you need a human
financial advisor or do you just go to
AI?
>> Look, I think I I think I I prefer
humans and most people you'll find
actually when they get enough money,
people say it's like three times of
their salary, they start to like a
financial adviser because it's not
part-time. Financial advisors will
leverage, you know, the the robo kind of
capabilities to help them better
customize for clients. Um, but you know
what? I'm a big believer because I think
that, you know, if an 18-year-old can
put a hundred bucks away for a year, uh,
getting in the market and the way for
them to get access to that is through a
a a passive fractional share, uh, robo
advisor. That's great. That's better
than nothing.
AI in the workplace is a key topic
[music] and sometimes a concern.
Artificial intelligence has already cost
workers their jobs, disrupted some
workflows,
and automated others.
>> The the threat of generative artificial
intelligence is very real. It it doesn't
necessarily mean that a robot's going to
write an Academy Award-winning script,
but it will devalue our members work.
>> Leading AI tech chief executives preach
its benefits, even encourage us to use
it.
When the calculator came out, math
teachers at the time apparently said,
"This is a disaster. This is the end of
math education.
Why why bother teach anyone math?" Like,
this is, you know, this these kids are
never going to learn. And of course,
what happened is with better tools, we
use our brain power for something else.
>> It's not that we will be replaced by AI
in our roles, [music] but we can be
replaced by someone who's using AI,
who's getting that operating leverage if
we're not. you can you like create
things that take away 90% of the work
and that leads you to want more people
not less.
>> Then there's the other side of the coin.
Dario Amod who founded and runs
Anthropic seemingly goes against his own
interest when he says AI could wipe out
50% of all entry-level white collar jobs
in the next 1 to 5 years causing 10 to
20% unemployment across the globe.
It's bigger and it's broader and it's
moving faster than anything has before.
Learn to use AI. Learn to understand
where the technology is going. If you're
not blindsided, you have a much better
chance of adapting.
>> Jeffrey Hinton, often cited as [music]
godfather of AI, offered the strongest
caution as he accepted the Nobel Prize
for his foundational discoveries that
enabled [music] today's artificial
intelligence.
We have no idea whether we can stay in
control,
but we now have evidence that if they
are created by companies motivated by
short-term profits, our safety will not
be the top priority.
They are no longer science fiction.
>> So, what does a future with man and
machine working together actually look
like?
>> Your vote is ready.
>> It's one employee, right? And so the
idea that he's going to be there, going
to continue to work, fill all those
shifts, it the the economics start to
make sense.
>> Every industry and every [music] person
in practically every job will contend
with this change and the pace of it.
>> AI is here and it is not going away and
it has already made a significant impact
across the financial system. In capital
markets, firms are using AI to analyze
massive volumes of data in real time.
from trading patterns to financial
disclosures to guide investment
decisions, execute trades more
efficiently and reduce costs.
>> How do you see AI disrupting actually
financial services?
>> Yeah. So, you know, I I think this is
faster than even I thought it was
coming. So, there's the obvious
efficiencies in back office so that you
can drive down the cost of your
products, right? AI is going to be
important there. Every big financial
institution spends a lot of money on
reconciliation between systems and
reconciling data. AI will help with
that. You know, I might want to say,
what are tariffs going to do? Uh, how do
they affect US pharmaceutical companies
versus European pharmaceutical
companies? Give me some, you know,
perspective on this. It's a theme. It
crosses over a lot of things. It goes
through all of your research reports
internally. It can consume data from all
your self-signed reports and it starts
to come back with a theme. And then you
can start to engage with that. It's
going to have aic AI. It already does
because we have a first development of
it where it'll go out and kind of learn
itself and say, "Hey, is this is this
interesting data for you?" Right? And so
if you can do that well such that that
advisor says, "I love meeting with
Franklin Templeton because those
meetings are so valuable to me." That's
going to be a win. And then same thing
on the investment process. It's just
going to make them much more efficient
and effective.
>> But but but then most firms will
actually have the same models. So what
makes the difference between the ones
that win and the ones that don't?
>> I actually don't think most firms will
have the same models. I think that firms
will leverage things like open AI and
start to customize. But training the
model is going to be all about your own
data. That's why one of the first things
you do when you're building out AI is
you immediately fence off your own data.
But what gets really interesting is that
the AI leveraging as a tool by your
entire talent [music] force is going to
be what the future is. Now, I'm really
optimistic about things like blockchain
as being able to allow us to deliver the
same [music] kind of investment
expertise at a a more cost-effective uh
price.
At its core, blockchain is a digital
ledger, a record book that isn't held by
one single [music] entity, but shared
across a multitude of computers at once.
Every new transaction is grouped into a
block secured to the one before it,
creating a chain that cannot be altered
without breaking it. The result is a
transparent, tamperresistant system for
tracking ownership and transfers.
Digital assets over time, you're going
to stop talking about them as a separate
thing. Way back when when I uh ran at
Franklin, we were launching our, you
know, internet group. Everything to do
with the internet was under me. Now, you
can't imagine thinking of that as a
separate group. I think the same thing's
gonna happen to digital assets. Today,
it's kind of been a separate thing.
[music] It's going to naturally
converge. The blockchain does hold
promise in theory, but skeptics point
[music] out that any financial system
that grows in popularity will eventually
start to look a lot like traditional
systems, even if it's on the blockchain.
>> Jane, talk to me about politics and
business. So it feels like we've entered
a new phase in the US and maybe around
the world where business and politics
have gotten a lot closer. Do you see any
dangers?
>> Look, the interesting thing is um every
business has to run regardless of who's
in the political office. I'm always
interested where people will say, "Oh,
they're, you know, trying to drive this
party or that party." Actually, most
businesses try to stay right in the
middle so that they don't ever get on
the adverse side of one party or the
other. There's there's definitely
lobbying that happens for individual
interests of things. I mean, you try as
a CEO not to actually um lean one way or
the other and try to stay very middle of
the road and you have shareholders on
both sides. You have clients on both
sides.
>> But politics is changing, right? Because
if you have an administration that
forces you to choose sides or forces,
you know, even on on the trade
perspective to choose sides, how do you
deal with it?
>> Look, we're an investment firm, right?
So volatility is actually good for
active managers. And so in this period
like like I said, you finally saw active
managers starting to outperform. Um our
job is actually and in particularly in
times of uncertainty, that's when people
realize that managing their money is not
a part-time job. So from an investment
[clears throat] person, staying on top
of all these things has always been core
to what they do.
>> Jenny, how do you think about
succession? So how, you know, do your
kids want to go into the business? Uh so
of my five, one has uh one has gone into
the business and I have two nephews that
are also in the business. We are a
public company and so uh there's no
there's no right for any Johnson to
[music] be the future. There wasn't a
right for me to be in that role, which
is why the board put me through that
process.
I would not want any [music] Johnson
member who doesn't love this business to
even be considered. And I think there
are there are three of the next
generation [music] that seem to love it.
Um, but they certainly don't have any
right versus anybody else. I think a job
of a CEO is succession, [music]
right? That that if you leave and you
haven't put the right person in place,
you kind [music] of failed. And there's
plenty of examples of iconic CEOs who
didn't turn it over to the right [music]
person after, didn't groom that right
person. So, look at I I still plan to be
here for a lot longer. Um, but I
definitely think about part of my job
[music] will be to find that next next
person to be the successor.
>> And and what advice would you give them
today? [music]
>> Make sure that you surround yourself
with the right people and put them in
the right places. Again, love what you
do. If this is not the thing that you
wake up every day and love what you do,
[music] this is not going to be the
right job for you because you are going
to spend way too much time doing it. And
then showing that resilience, that
persistence.
>> Jenny, thank you.
>> Thank you.
>> [music]
[music]